Good evening, sir.
Yeah, good evening. Good, sir. Good evening.
Good evening, sir. Just give me a minute.
Let do a renaming.
So today, uh, I'll do a brief recap of the last, uh,
theory learning in Monte Cardo.
Today's topic will be mostly on Q learning.
Sir, for Monte Cardo, can we take one example
as we did last time, we calculated the value so
that it'll more clear.
Any example, random work, grade work or something like that?
From Monte Carlo? Yes, sir.
Monte, any numerical, any numerical example will be
really help to understand better?
Mm. For Monte Carlo, I had given that for Azure assignment
because Monte Carlo.
Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah, sure. Yeah,
I have Assignment is not uploaded yet, sir. Right. Uh,
Okay. I, I'll write
the statement, then they'll upload it.
Okay. Okay. Monte is very easy.
I will tell you where to do what
and you can do it by yourself.
Yeah, sure, sir. Thank you.
I, I'll open the,
Uh, hello sir. Uh,
one quick check.
Uh, the assignment is a Python program or uh,
We had to calculate it. Python.
Python program.
Okay. Thank you sir. Mm-hmm.
Open the notebook.
Just give me a second. I will open my notebook.
It is taking some time.
Yeah, sure, sir.
This week class will be on, uh, q learning.
After that we'll get into deep Q learning.
I can open the PDF.
Will I have two specs, one for reading purpose, one
for distance purpose.
So I just change the specs.
So you're able to see the screen right now?
Yes sir. It is visible. Ah,
Okay. So, uh,
what is the task?
I will tell you before I start the topic for today.
So what I did the last two classes was TD learning.
So TD learning algorithm is, so for everything,
it is updating the value.
We are not doing, uh, improvement of the policy.
First, we are evaluating the policy.
So this is for evaluation of the policy.
So this is the equation that has been written in the code.
This is for learning
and for Monte Carlo learning, I will show you the same code.
I will tell you this, this line alone, you have to do it
for your Monte Carlo.
This has been done for TD learning
the formula for Monte Carlo.
I will show you to you, your task will be just
to implement that formula.
Okay? So multiple times I have explained the meaning
of this formula for theory learning.
I'm not going to re-explain.
If you require, I can tell you again, should I re-explain
or go ahead with what is it would do for Monte Carlo
For me? Please go
ahead sir. Other skills?
Yeah, I think for everybody it is
quite hmm.
Okay, So for TD learning
and Monte Caro, for both of them, we are
working on the value function.
This is the value function, okay?
For updating the queue function, we go for q learning as
of now, um, in from two today's class,
we'll get into the queue learning your home task.
Uh, your assignment is not on the queue learning,
it is on the value function update using Monte Carlo.
This is the Monte Carlo equation. Okay?
So I will tell you where you have to update the code.
So this is the T learning code.
I have already shared it to you.
So all of these are basically your, your changing this,
this one is basically DK of your learning parameter.
Learning your learning rate is defined by alpha. Okay?
So alpha will be set to high in the initial
phase of your episode.
As the episode progress,
your alpha value will be decreasing.
That is what is a decay schedule, general trajectory.
This function will be utilized when we get into q learning
the general trajectory, nothing.
But every time you take an uh, every at every step,
you take action and you get a next step
maintaining this next state, um, state action reward.
This one, maintaining of state action
reward and next state.
And whether the next state is a terminal state or not.
This four, uh, five information, they are made it
as a double.
This tap is called your trajectory or, um, uh, experience.
Okay? This is the experience.
If you keep on appending this experiment, set
of experience is called trajectory
because that is what it is doing here.
Maintaining, uh, recording this experience
and then keep on appending that experience.
So as I told you, this is policy evaluation.
Policy improvement is going to be done by q learning
your task is on TD learn and your task on Monte.
Okay, so in case of
value function evaluation, what is the formula?
The formula is given here?
The new value function for the state of SK
is getting assigned from the previous old value
of SK plus learning rate, multiplied by
the next state reward
and the value made to you available
from the old values of the value function in the next state,
subtraction of the present state.
So this is the updated question,
and this is going to be coded up here,
this part, okay?
So that's, this is your, uh, printing the value,
and these are, this will, these functions
and all, it'll remain the same
because this is just printing.
What is the value function for a particular state?
Okay? So after that, uh,
you are going to be provided the environment
for the random walk.
And I will give you one more example called, uh,
so this is a random walk.
This is a T learning algorithm here.
You need to modify for your Monte Carlo.
Look at in the TD learning your
update of the state function,
this is the updated state function.
This is the updated state function, which is
getting assigned from the old value of same state multiplied
by the, uh, plus of your alpha.
That is your learning rate multiplied by TDR.
What is TD error? TD error is this subtraction.
This part, this part is called TD error. Okay?
So this, you are getting it from here.
Every time you take a action,
you get a next date and reward.
Take that next date, multiply with that,
your discount factor plus of your reward, getting reward
that you're getting for the action that you're taking.
This is your TD target. TD target.
My subtraction with the present estimation
of your value is called td.
TD means temporal difference. Okay?
So this is what you have to do for your Monte Carlo.
Also in the Monte Carlo, this TTR will be replaced.
Uh, this t and this target target is going to be replaced
by this formula
reward minus of present estimate of your value.
This reward is
after completion of your episode,
you are going to get the reward.
So this reward function is a constant for you.
Only when you complete your episode, either you are going
to reach the target and desired state.
If you don't get to desire set, you are going
to get zero reward.
Okay? So here only you need to modify that function.
That's it. Your target is going to be reward
after reaching the finance state
because for every intermediate step,
you don't get any reward.
Then that TD target that is, it'll become multicolor target,
Montecarlo target, subtract with the present estimate,
that becomes your Monte Carlo error update.
This update will remain the same thing. Okay?
So that is your assignment task.
Okay? So today's class is going to be on your Q learning.
So for Q learning,
yeah, so the q learning the equation is
the new new estimate
is getting assigned from the old estimate
of the Q function.
What is Q function? Q function is basically, so difference
between Q function and value function
is a very important question.
So Q function means that
at every state you have been committed
to a particular action.
Now what is the value for taking
that action in that particular state?
And once you take that particular action,
you are eventually reaching to some next step.
So after reaching the next state, you will have to behave
as per the policy given to you beforehand.
Okay? So that is called Q function.
So that means what is the quality
of taking a particular action at a particular state?
That is called Q function.
In case of value function, the value function is basically,
it is a one dimensional
because it argument is only number of states.
In case of Q function, it is a two dimensional.
The argument first one is the number of states.
The second one is the number of action possible
for each and every state.
Okay? And the update equation is,
there is a small trick here, this part.
So till now, the updated equation, if you look at, uh,
the value function, the value function,
okay?
If you look at the TD learning value function,
your new estimation of the value function is
assigned from the old estimation plus
learning rate multiplied by this quantity.
This called TDR, okay?
We don't have any maximum operator maximizing operator here
in case of value function.
But whereas in case of Q learning,
we have a maximizing operator coming in.
Coming, okay? So what is the main reason behind it?
Why the maximum water coming in?
Can you have any guess?
We need to, we need to take the maximize action
maximum when do mm-hmm.
Which, um, reward? Uh, for the actions, sir?
Maximum reward for the action for all those
Mm.
Yeah, you are, you are near to the answer,
but, uh, that maximizing is not applicable
in value function.
What is the reason?
Value function we are considering for state only.
No, here we are considering state
action in Q functions.
The value function is for one action.
For One action is constant
Value function.
You said value function is for one action.
For e action, we evaluate the value function, sir.
No, no, no. Value function is applicable
to a particular state overall possible action.
Yeah. Not a particular action.
Yeah, yeah, that's what I meant, sir,
because that, that's what we used to do when we used
to calculate.
Mm.
Okay. Then what, uh, new function then
That particular state to what will do the, uh, uh,
for which action maximum reward will be there?
Mm, yes. Okay.
So the primary reason is
value function is used to evaluate a policy,
whatever possible action, whatever action are possible
for a particular state, you have to consider all of them.
And then you take a average for all of the actions
that becomes a value function, okay?
Value function will not be helping you to find out, eh, uh,
improve behavior of your policy means a
policy is given to you.
We can just find out what is the
value if I take this policy, okay?
It'll not help you to find out a better policy
from a given particular policy, okay?
Just like in case of unit one lecture,
you might have already done it, that, um, your, um,
value and policy tion thing, right?
So for finding an improved policy,
you require the help of Q function
because Q function takes into account of
a particular action for a state.
So a particular action.
If you can find out its value, then you can compare
all the possible action in a particular state.
Now, among all possible action, you are going
to find out the particular action which
provides the highest value.
So that is why we go for the maximization
quantity here in this equation, which is not going
to be coming in your value function evaluation.
Okay? So out of all possible action
at the state of a k plus one, look at this, this,
this expression means you are following a old policy.
In the old policy. Currently you are at the state
called SK plus one.
At this state, you have multiple possible action here.
This A stands for many actions.
Out of those many action,
which action A is producing the highest?
Well, that particular action only you need
to use in this update equation.
So the difference between value function
and your queue function application is only a very sim very
thin difference.
The thin differences s this max
operator will not be appearing for value function.
I'll just show you here in the value function.
Yeah, this is the function expected value, sir. Mm-hmm.
Okay?
I have not, uh, given you the burden of TD Lambda landing,
which you will not be able to do it right now.
Once you gain some experience, we can do it.
TD Lambda is called this,
TD Lambda learning is a general version of TD learning.
I have not, I have excluded from your syllabus. Okay?
So that is your Q learning this part.
So this one I'm going to do it by using a Python code.
So we are going to now find out a improved policy
by the help of Q learning.
Okay? So the exam, so I'll just modify,
I'll be showing you the exam by modifying this
evaluation of this TD target alone.
So let me show you the Q learning.
So Q learning in its original form is called off
policy, okay?
Off policy means the policy that you are updating,
you are updating the policy.
You are get, you are updating your old policy
to get a new policy, okay?
And, uh, to update the old policy,
you consider all possible action for a particular state.
So this should be pre-computed to you.
Then only you can find out this who is the maximum
among all possible actions, right?
So that means you are using a pre computed value
of the queue function.
That means they're available to you in an offline mode.
That is why it is called off policy.
And on policy means you don't have sufficient amount
of memory to store the old, uh,
policies, all possible queue function.
You don't have that much memory.
So in that case, you cannot apply this
maximization operator.
In that case, you take a random action, take that action
as your next value of your, um,
next steps queue function value.
Just this becomes just like your
TD learning update this one.
So whenever you don't consider this maximum operator,
it is called on policy.
On policy means you are basically working
as just like a online mode.
You don't have sufficient memory.
So you just take the next possible action,
whatever is randomly written
and, uh, returning from your policy, you go ahead with that.
You don't have any luxury to find out who is the maximum
among all possible action.
That is called on policy.
And on policy Q learning is known as sosa.
Sosa mean state action reward state action, SARS,
state action reward State action.
Okay, so you are currently in the state, then action.
Then you get into next, uh, you, you get a reward.
That is rk. And then next state, next action.
So that is called ssa.
So this is the programming
for Q learning.
So I have run it for a thousand debug.
Then I could not, it just taking a lot of time.
I will share you the program you can run it for,
it'll take at least one hour.
Okay? So the program is very simple.
You look at very small program.
The main part of the program, I will tell you.
So this program is basically your frozen leg problem.
That means you have eight cross eight lead
and you have this, I'm using gymnasium package for some gym.
I'm getting this frozen leg.
I am taking this eight cross eight
to sleep party environment
and rendering means at the end of the training,
it'll produce you a JPG image that, uh,
what is the path the agent has taken
to reach the final state.
Okay? So we are going to see
what is the main part of the code.
So first of all, we are going to run
this, uh, policy update.
It's called policy update for all the number of episodes.
So the first loop is we have to update the policy
for the number of episodes.
Okay, sir,
What is an episode in frozen lake context?
Okay, episode means you are taking, okay,
one episode means until you reach the final goal
or you reach the terminal state terminal statements,
there are, there are, there are holes in that lake, okay?
So either you reach the final goal state
or you reach the, uh, holes.
That means that is completing one episode.
So at one episode, you'll not be reaching a goal state,
but whatever state you are finally reaching,
use that reward to train your
state action, state action policy.
So you have to do lot of episode to get your average,
I mean, to get your average time experience
of the whole path.
Understood
That this is user past parameter,
Is it? Mm,
yes. Yes. Okay.
Okay. So you first use initialize your state.
This ENV is from the gym environment.
So you don't have to do anything.
You just call the gymnasium package, use
that gymnasium package as ENV.
So your ENV is this,
that you're setting it from gymnasium package.
Then you have either terminator termination condition
or tation termination means you are reaching
either a gold state or a pit holes, okay?
Truncated means you have exceeded all amount of
trial inside a particular episode.
That means, uh, in a episode, you are going to take around
a upper limit of let's say around 500,
since it is a random or kind of problem, okay?
You, you'll be toggling between two states
for quite a good amount of time.
So at some point of time you have
to finish your trial, right?
So that is what is called truncation.
So then, uh, for each episode, now you are
running another, uh, another while loop, which is going
to be conditioned on either you reach your total number
of trial possible
or you are getting into your terminal state.
Okay? So now here, this one, I will make it simplify.
I will tell you what is the meaning of this thing il Here,
I will tell you later, it is called
this problem is called
explore and exploitation strategy.
Okay? So that is why we required this al parameter.
I will tell you shortly after this, completing on this part.
So you are getting an action from your, your next action
that you're getting is basically your sampling here,
your sampling from your environment.
So this is standard function, e nv action space.
It will provide you all possible action
in a particular state.
And then out of those possible action,
there are four possible action out of that.
It'll take randomly one.
So it will be like either 0, 1, 2, 3, 0 means left,
one means down like that, out of all possible four value,
it'll give you only one value.
So action will be taking only one value from me here, okay?
This condition, I will tell you shortly this a condition.
So after you get your action, then you
take a transition on particular action.
So even if you dot statements, you are doing a transition on
that particular action that you're getting from him.
So after taking a transition, you get next state reward,
and the next it can be terminated or it can be truncated.
Fine. So then you are going to do the Q value
Q function objection.
So this, this particular line from here,
okay, from here to here, this is what is exactly in this.
So I have a old q hello plus learning rate multiplied
by RK plus gamma maximization
over all possible action.
Okay? This is what is coded over here.
This is my old Q Hello. That is Q.
State action plus learning rate multiplied by
reward plus discount factor multiplied by
look at here, NP max.
NP max is the function that will provide you
this particular thing maximization over this thing.
Who is which action is producing maximum cfi Max Q State?
Look at here. This queue,
this queue is basically a two dimensional metrics.
It has number of states for each state,
it has all possible four action.
The moment you say a particular state specified
by this new state, this new state is coming as a result
of this SK plus one.
Okay? Because you have taken a transition on the action
of a at the state of sk.
So your next state is SK plus one,
and the next state you have whole number
of different action possible out of those four action
that is this colon
provided outta those four action,
you pick up the maximum value return by whichever action.
Okay? This is ending here.
This NP max is ending here,
and then SubT action with here, old estimation
of Q function, Q old,
and this is getting run inside which loop
for every state you take a, uh, you take action,
you are getting into new state
until you hit the terminal state
or you, uh, yeah.
So this one, this is the condition
until you hit either terminal state
or your total number of trial is over till that time,
this will go on and every time it goes on,
it is updating this queue function.
Okay? And
before getting into the next,
you assign your state to your new state.
Okay? Now, you must be asking a question.
This Q function, where did I define it?
The Q function is, define it here,
two functions defined here.
It is a two dimensional metrics.
So it is NP zero,
and the dimension will be state, all possible.
State possible is observation space,
and for each state, what are the action space, okay?
For our eight cross eight grid number
of status 64 8 squared is 64.
And for each state, how many action
possible four action possible.
Okay? So that is how what is given here. This is your view.
Okay? Now
before I go ahead with what is called asylum meaning
of asylum, which is called basically exploitation
and exploitation strategy.
Before that, do you have any
question, sir?
When p file was there, what is
that pickle file that I will tell you?
These are for coding purpose pickle is basically
whenever you don't want to do training.
Let's say I have yesterday night, I, I was running,
but I, I got slipped when it was running,
so I, I could not finish it because
after you, I mean I think once you have
done your training, if you're not accessing your computer,
it they'll disconnect it you by half an hour.
Ideal time. So if that happens, what you do is you,
after running, you just save it your wait file,
that means your whatever, uh, training you have done it.
Then once you save it, you can save it, it
as a dot pick format
and later point of time if you don't want to do
that training again, okay, you, if you don't want to do
that training again, you said that is training to be false.
Yeah, this is training. You can set it to be false.
The moment you make it false, then this will not be running.
Instead this will be running, it'll be taking your
already learned values to show your output.
So that is why we use pickle.
Pickle L is basically a file formatting used by Python
To store your any, uh, two dimensional,
three dimensional metrics.
You can store it using P file.
Yeah, sure, sir. So
Every time you can run it your program
and you, uh, this value function is going
to be storing your values
and queue function, going
to be storing a queue values in a matrix format.
Those values, you can store it using PL file.
Once you store it, then next time you don't want to run it,
you just use those already stored files.
The storing is going to happen in here.
If training is true,
then you open the file in write mode W payments,
you are writing a binary file
and then you are dumping pickle do dump this.
What is accepting this dump function?
Dump function is part of, part of your PL package.
So you have to input the p, you have to import the pickle.
Pickle dump will help you to call this function of dump so
that you can store the values of queue.
Look at this queue you are storing into the file.
Call F, this is the f, f is this file.
So all of the values is getting stored here
and next time, if you run it by setting this
to be false, okay?
In that case, this will be using the pickle file
to show you all of the details.
Like is training is false? It'll not be doing training.
Here also is training is false.
It'll not do any q function ation.
It'll simply show you what is the value available
to you in the previous training time.
Do you have any more question? I'll show you
what is the meaning of this asylum.
Also, we will go through the code ones then in last,
Okay?
Okay, so now I will get into what is called exploitation
and exploitation strategy
or it is basically called trade off between
exploration and exploitation.
So exploitation means your
mind is quite free and you are exploring the world
and exploitation means whatever
you have learned from your previous experience.
Previous experience can be, uh, I mean
your experience can be accumulated by your own experiment
or it may be the experiment of any previous sample like
normally happens like those who of you are into the job.
You have already senior people who have been doing that job
for years and all they pass you on some
tools and techniques.
The not only tools and techniques,
they pass you on some tricks
that this will work, that will not work.
The moment you take the experience
of others means experimental result of the previous people
or previous sample we call it.
You are no longer doing exploitation.
You are basically doing exploitation.
Okay? Now here comes that
what is a tradeoff between exploration
and exploration and exploitation.
The trade off is basically you do a a coin tossing
and if the coin tossing value is coming
to be head, you do a exploitation.
If the coin tossing is coming to be tail,
you do a exploitation.
Exploitation means you take the
experience from the old samples
and go ahead to make your next decision.
Okay? So that is what we are going to show you here
by the help of asylum.
So asylum is set to be one.
Whenever we set it to be one, we are doing exploration.
Okay? That means a hundred percent
of your actions are random action.
Here you can choose your action either
by doing a random activity
or you can choose your action by finding the old samples
based possible value that becomes your exploitation.
The moment you go for random action, it becomes exploration.
So if salon is equal to one, that means you are doing eh,
exploring your exploring the world.
And then this FRN is getting decayed every time by a rate
of 0.001,
Okay?
So every time this is decaying by rate of 0.001.
So that when FRN falls below you are now going
to stop doing exploitation.
You will now get into exploitation.
So basically exploitation is going
to be working only when you have gained sufficient
amount of experience.
Okay? So, so we are going to take the help of a random
number generator.
So this random number generated
basically between zero to one.
If the random number generator value is less than
Excel, okay?
If that is the case, in that case you are going
to do exploration.
If the random number generator value is more than asylum,
in that case you're going to do exploitation.
Okay? So here, look at this condition when you're doing the
training, if the random number generator value is less than
asylum, in that case you go ahead
with doing your exploiting the world.
If the random number generator value is returning,
which is bigger than epsilon, in that case your action,
the action that you're choosing at every state
that is coming out of your queue function,
this queue function has been key on continuously learning.
This Q function value is keep on continuously learning
the subsequent stage, okay?
So it means that whenever this Q function has gained so much
of experience, then you should stop exploration.
You can now go ahead with exploiting the previous valve,
previous old samples, okay?
One example I had shown you that is, uh,
exploration and exploitation.
The chapter three itself,
That is,
This is a Q function for your unit one lecture, okay?
This is the Q function values.
So it is like this, let's say you have run your algorithm
for quite long amount of time
and you have gained experience sufficient amount of
for every state, what are the action,
what action can be a better action.
So in that case, onward, you can go ahead
and doing the exploitation instead
of doing exploitation, okay?
So in the initial phase, we go ahead
and do exploring the world.
Once we have gained sufficient amount of experiment, uh,
experince, then we go ahead and do exploitation.
Okay? So that, and then
So here, sir, in final stage, the example that is the uh,
uh, for particular experiment, that one, that was the final,
uh, partner sir.
Uh, final value, final actions in this, in this, yeah,
In this figure, Yeah, optimum policy.
This was optimum policy.
This is the, uh, final action for each of these states.
Ah, yes. So after that, how we'll do explanation sir?
No, once you, as It is finalized already,
Uh, no. Once you
reach the optimal, it'll take thousand amount
of uh, episode to come up to this optimal policy.
But when you have not reached the optimal, let's say you are
around in the 80% of your path,
so somewhere something like let's say a thousand,
after a thousand, you are getting this optimal policy.
Let's say after 750 automation.
Now onward, you can get into exploiting
phase yes.
So that you quickly get into the final answer.
Yes. So this exploration
exploitation helps you to get into, uh,
quick solution once you have gained sufficient
amount of experience.
Yes, thank you sir.
Okay, so I will share this.
You can run it for, I think it'll take more than an hour.
Those of you who have uh, access to GPU
or you can, uh, subscribe to this Google color and all,
and you can run it in GPU mode.
Let me download and send it to you.
Download,
Okay? So you have
any question? Tomorrow
we have again, same time class.
So this week all as assignment we have
to submit on Sunday.
No sir.
Uh, A summary session Summary, sir?
Session summary, yeah, assignment.
I'm going to write it to you right now.
Assignment, do you have time till 14th of January?
Yes sir. Yeah.
14th of January. Yeah,
Sir, please make it.
15th, sir. 14th festival, sir.
Okay, Four 15
Sir, something is announced today, uh, because we joined
because there's a confusion.
Today's class.
Today's class, no,
I have only told you your submission date
for assignment is 15th of January.
So sir, better make it 18, sir.
Here, uh, in south of three days you'll be there, Al
Okay?
Okay. 18th January. Okay,
So is the assignment uploaded?
Uh, because I don't see anything in database?
No, not yet. Not yet. Okay.
So your uh, quiz will be held
as usual Sunday, every Sunday.
I mean by the time of Sunday you must be, uh, submitting it.
Yes. And session notes, uh, class notes,
we have to submit for three
Days. Same, same time
by Sunday.
Yeah, for three days, sir, this
You have any more question?
I will,
No, excuse me.
Sir, can you please go to the court, sir?
Just gimme a second
Go up, sir, please go up sir.
Sir? Uh, one doubt sir.
So the pickle we are importing, right? Where do we use it?
Sir, can you please explain that? Thanks
Pickle, pickle is
whenever you have completed your training
and you want to use those already trained Q value functions
QQ function value, you already stored it
inside this Q2 metrics, the Q2 metrics, this,
this one, okay.
Okay, so this queue, hello, you don't wanna train it.
And again, next time when you log into this notebook,
you don't, you save it as a P file.
Uh, So this is the pickle file in which you're going
to save here, this pickle down dump.
This is the function by which you can save queue
into the file referred by small F,
small F is function, this file name,
Okay? Next
time when you have access to the same program,
you don't want to do the training.
Yes sir. In that case, this
you are reading from the P file
to get your Q value.
Okay? Okay.
So this queue value is all you need to find out
what is the, the, this is your queue optimal value.
Okay? So this is optimal. Hello?
Okay, This is getting stored into your queue value,
Okay? Okay.
Now after that you can show
and you can display what are the reward
for each and every state.
Like that everything you can show by displaying some kind
of print function for every state and all.
But, uh, one question. Yes, sorry sir.
So in this case, this uh, pickle is kind of library.
So we are using this to store these values.
So in that case, like uh, uh, why can't we have it as a
separate class or something like that?
So why do we need to use it as a library?
There are other methods, like you can store it
as a dot mat file.
You can store it at NPY file. Hmm is one of them,
Okay? There
are many methods by which you can store a matrix
into a file,
Okay? Normally matlab,
we use dot, mat file.
Then mpi, they will allow you to store it as NP file.
P is a very, uh, convenient way.
You can use some other format, no problem.
Yes, sir. So basically this P is only associated
with reinforcement learning. No, no, no,
No, no, no. P has
nothing to do with p is just metrics into a file.
Okay? Okay, got it. Thanks.
So one question on Sal decay function,
which is only used in Oracle, correct?
I mean there is a weight to decay function also,
which we used for over fitting of the,
so dk
DK function.
Yeah, Okay.
Here in this case, over fitting
and under fitting that problem is, uh,
here in this, uh,
reinforcement learning context over fitting,
under fitting is not going to happen
as you have seen in machine learning problem.
The reason is, uh, in case of machine learning,
you are training your model by providing
a correct sample and an incorrect sample.
Okay? A good sample and a bad sample.
By the help of that good
and bad, bad you are training, uh, your model,
but in case of reinforcement learning,
you don't give what is good, what is bad sample itself
means sample means the particular data
which has already been leveled with good, bad.
In case of machine learning, in case
of reinforcement learning, it is something that
you take a sequence of action
after reaching the final goal or
after expiring all possible,
all possible action that you can take.
Once a limit is expired,
then whatever place you are reaching, that place is going
to tell you whether you have made a good, uh,
I mean it is called, uh,
if you are all possible set of actions are good,
you are in a good position.
If you are all possible, set of action are not good,
you are in a bad position.
So it has nothing to do with the sample of the data itself.
It is basically the path in which you have come
to this particular position at your life.
So that is why in case of reinforcement learning, we call it
exploration or exploitation, No.
So ultimate goal is not known to us.
Whatever I'm currently situation right now, I can take only
one action at one time step.
I cannot take multiple action at one time step.
So I don't have a full view of my future.
So, but for every time I reach a particular junction
of my life, I experience something good or bad.
So that experience now you correlate with all
of your past action, you give some fraction of
that is called discounted reward
to all path that we have taken.
Okay? So that is why we call it
as a either exploit or exploit. Exploit,
Okay?
Yeah, thanks.
It is not related with under fitting or worth fitting.
Yep. So ultimately for reinforcement learning,
everything is probability of action.
Given is means at a given state,
what is the action you are taking?
If, if you, okay, it is sequence
of action you are taking after reaching so many,
after expanding all the possibility of your trial,
once you reach a particular state,
that state will consider it is the either termination state
or it is a goal state.
Okay? So ultimate objective
for reinforcement learning is probability of A given.
S. If the final outcome is a good state,
then you say we have to increase the probability
of action given s for every state you take, okay?
If the final outcome is bad, then what is your job?
You should reduce your probability of action given as so
that you should not repeat the same bad action.
Uh, actually reinforcement learning is used
for training the behavior of a agent, agent can be human.
I mean agent are learning everything by
human being or animal being.
So they want to improve the behavior.
Behavior means what action you can take
at a particular state.
So basically It controls
Exploration and exploitation That
Mm, yes, yes.
Okay. And that is why it is called continual learning.
Also, reinforcement learning is also called continual
learning because the more you grow
in your age, you'll see that learning has no ending.
It has no age,
Okay?
Only thing you can pass on your learning to your
newer generation.
For newer generation, it is becoming
some previous knowledge of the past sample.
So now they have a choice that either to explore or exploit,
but for the initial learners, I mean those
who are into the initial, those who are exploring
initial days for them, there is no previous sample.
Then how they will learn,
Actually reinforcement learning is real time learning.
Machine learning is not real time learning.
Machine learning is given this level data set to you.
You are, you have done so many things like generative AI
and all already the data samples
by which you learn training.
Your model is there level sample, it is a good image
or it is a corrupted image.
But here in this case, no one is going
to tell you this is a good, uh, image or good text
or this is a bad text.
You may be hitting to bad scenario also,
but if you hit a bad scenario, now your job will be to two,
reduce the probability of action a given state is so
that you should not take the same bad path again and again.
Yeah,
thank you.
Okay. Uh,
Any more question you can ask
because actually now once I get into deep Q learning,
75% of your course content is getting completed.
Deep Q learning is only two lectures away.
Once you come back from, from this, uh,
your new year is falling,
then I will be getting into deep pool learning.
Okay? So before the ngal itself,
I'll get into deep pool learning.
So from this week, that is
next class have in third January, right?
Uh, tomorrow, next class tomorrow will number
of participants will less then, uh, next,
the sixth, next Tuesday on
what we'll be getting a DQ learning.
Okay
Then sorry.
In January, uh, will the classes will,
75% is getting completed, right?
No, the classes will be going on
In 25%.
What we'll be covering, sir,
There are many things, one by one example I'll show you.
Yes. There'll be no more new theory.
I will only show you the examples.
Yes? Yes.
Excuse me sir.
Sir, for practice, where can we look up, sir?
Can you suggest certain areas where we can look up
for practice exercises?
Uh, I'm sharing you all this notebook, right?
You just take one
by one different environment file from gym package, you go
and export gym package.
There are many I'm giving you frozen lake on random work.
There are many other things like Novi
grid world is there,
then there is a new taxi route problem.
All basically environment you take up many, many.
That's what I, in the subsequent classes
or not, I will show you different examples only,
Okay? Theoretical
part is getting over sir.
Only thing is I'll show you many examples,
Sir. One
last report, sir, actually, uh,
which are all the libraries we need to be more
or less comfortable before we jump into
actual practice sessions.
So it'll be really helpful.
We can brush it up first before we jump
In. Oh, don't, don't
brush it up library like that
because library has multiple kind of use cases, okay?
And you cannot, uh,
it is something like you get into the real time problem,
you'll learn whatever is required
because library has many functions,
which I myself do not know.
Okay? Mainly
Nampa and then, uh,
Pandas.
Pandas, yeah, Nampa and pandas. These two are required.
Okay, Because I'm not doing any
differentiation packages here.
I'm only doing all this.
I'm not using any, yeah, I'm not using any
differentiation package here.
Like in the case of your generative I
and all you regard so many auto grad package
and, uh, many like
functions for doing differentiation.
All that is not required here.
Okay, sir? Got it sir? No thank you.
Reinforcement learnings, as I told you,
it's about imitating human behavior.
So you cannot take the help
of differentiation all the time, whatever you see.
Do some plus manage activity and take a decision.
Mm. In real time basis.
Actually these are running in Python in my BTech courses
and all, I give the same exercise
for running it into c plus plus.
Okay. So that it'll be much more faster,
Okay?
Yes, sir. So one question I have is like, uh, in case
of using differentiation with numerical methods, what kind
of results will it yield in reinforcement learning, sir?
Because differentiation
In reinforcement learning, we are not going
to use differentiation method
because you don't have the luxury
to apply different session method when you are
building a robot and all.
Okay? They,
they're possible when you're doing offline training,
all this generative AI
and all you are doing all there for them.
You require this differentiation
and when you build real time system, you don't have any time
to finish differentiation.
Take a decision that is not there.
No sir, but the back of the mind,
it can take up the decisions right?
When it is in the ideal mode or it can compute
and it can have some kind of, uh, library kind
of approach from which it can develop heuristics on its own
Because that will not be useful
because your environment is a dynamic,
your environment will not going to remain the static.
So in that case, what is the benefit of keeping the old,
uh, hello store?
Okay. Okay.
Actually in the domain of robots,
reinforcement learning also not get chance to get applied.
Hmm. Because here itself will take, if you run it,
it'll take one hour to finish this learning
for eight cross eight grade.
Hmm. For actually the actual use case reinforcement
learning, also not get scope to get utilized.
There are lot of other methods, straightforward
mathematical filtering method by which they're used.
Actually those are part of your robotics course
or your, uh, autonomous system course.
But reinforcement learning is used only when,
uh, in case of
multiple robots are there.
Each one of them has gained some experience.
Now they want to share that experience
for which you might be utilized.
Actually, in my knowledge,
reinforcement learning usage in robotics is
also not that much high.
Hmm. Because of time.
So much time it requires to do all the sampling.
Mm-hmm. Okay.
There are many filtered methods
and filtering methods on there, like common filters.
Hmm. Adaptive base filter in a drone
fighter aircraft and all.
Mm-hmm. All of this fighter aircraft
or even nowadays this astic Miss island,
even if a target is moving, missile will be keep on moving.
Okay. Missile is not, uh, going to follow
the path that has been set by the base station runtime.
It'll keep on changing its path based on the
target is movement.
So they are all driven by filtering methods, not driven
by reinforcement learning.
Okay.
Okay. Sir, they are
GPS and Aboriginal sir?
No, they, no.
If it is GPS and ab, you are very much vulnerable.
The moment you are under GPS, anyone can track you.
You track yes, that's the mm.
But yes sir, but
Radar, radar movement,
all the signals are captured by radar.
So radar will capture the target
and then target is moving.
Rad is also trying to find out the same target.
From there, they'll find out the path
and then they'll update the filtering mechanism
to find out his own direction of direction
and his own, uh, like, uh,
projectile so that he can make changes
of his direction at every moment.
He captures the radar information.
It is a huge domain basically
because for all the defense equipment
Hmm. Robotics
autonomous system are must to do.
Mm-hmm. How far can we use
the Montecarlo simulation or, uh,
Monte Carlo will not be used.
Monte Carlo is really basic, basic
Method can be uh, okay.
Okay. I think we have seven 40 almost time now,
so we can close the session today. Okay,
Perfect. Thank you.
Thank you, sir. Thank you sir.
Thank you sir. Thank, thank you. Yeah. Okay.